Let's now talk about one of the website security.
Big topics, obscure injection.
In one of the earlier chapters, I showed you this code, which is very prone to this kind of attack.
In intended circumstances, the query would look like this.
But when the upward parameter is passed directly as it came from the outside of the script, a malicious
user could alter it to be something like one or one equals one.
The final query would become totally different.
Now the second condition in workflows will always be true, so the query doesn't limit the user by ADD
any more.
It will return names and bases for all users.
And even if the script doesn't allow the output of multiple rows, it will most likely return the first
row only which for an attacker isn't that bad, considering that the first user often is an admin.
In a similar way, someone could try to change everyone's password if they managed to inject the same
thing in an update query.
If the UAED could be one or one equals one, the whole query would look like this and all users will
now have a password.
ABC one, two, three.
Let's see some more examples.
Here.
The script needs a string value.
Using the same malicious code as before will not work as the value would be surrounded with single quotes
and the OR operator will not work as intended by the attacker.
But if we insert this will produce a perfectly valid query and will carry out a successful ask.
You will injection attack.
Like where we can be more complicated.
For example, a second condition checking if there is a valid session token.
But an attacker might want to try their luck by simply commenting it out with two dashes and the space,
which is a common sequence in as.
It will produce a valid query as well and the fuel injection will again be successful.
As I demonstrated a while ago, such methods can be tried not only to get too much data from the database,
but also to modify it in search records, change them or delete or even drop tables.
Going back to our first example.
A malicious user could try passing these values.
Stupid get parameter.
The first will override all passwords to ABC, and the second one will simply drop the whole table.
I will not give any more examples because I think you already get the point.
Things can get really bad if you don't validate and the don't sanitize all the gets into the database
query.
So let's see how we can protect ourselves from such attacks.
First of all, you might wonder how common attacker knows the query structure or table names.
Well, lots, lots of sites and apps use evidence, table name and column names.
A table with users is often named users.
A table with products is often name just products.
If a site is built on WordPress by default, the table names are widely known.
WP underscore users.
WP underscore options, etc..
It's a good idea to avoid such obvious names for which an ideal solution is to keep all tables prefixed
with something less evident.
You don't even have to remember that prefix story where you stole database credentials as another constant.
And use that constant in your queries like in this example.
Of course, this will only harden the security of your app as long as you don't reveal it by accident.
For example, in public comment in the email or JavaScript code by allowing displaying runtime errors
in the browser which could reveal part of the query and table names.
This will happen when you have the display errors option set to on in BHP configuration or by poorly
protecting the error log document.
If an attacker could cause the runtime error and review the log file, they will gain a lot of knowledge.
In WordPress, it's also possible to change the default table prefix.
During installation on the screen.
When you were asked for database credentials, you can define your own table prefix instead of the default
WP underscore.
The prefix can also be changed on existing installations, but that's slightly more complicated process,
which will cover in the chapter about improving WordPress security.
Last.
It's not too difficult to create a script that will keep trying to run the query with various combinations
of table names, column names and potential values.
Such tool can quickly run hundreds or thousands of combinations, and with some simple analysis, an
attacker will get the idea how your vulnerable query works.
But there's another method to find out how your tables look like.
The blind skewer injection is a type of attack which is not meant to cause any harm by itself, but
its purpose is to find out some information about the database usually structure.
Let's suppose the attacker is not sure whether the column holding usernames is called login user name
or maybe something else.
If they can inject a very simple skewer to the query, they can find it out by observing what the result
of a query is on page.
If they could run this.
And the page will return an error.
Either the page is not vulnerable or name is the column that doesn't exist.
But if they run this.
And this time the page returns as normal.
Then a log in column probably exists and the page is vulnerable.
We know this because with other column name, the result was completely different.
The subtype of blind escort injection is a time based school injection, which works in a similar way.
But instead of observing the results, the attacker analyzes the time in which the results came back.
The injected school quote is constructed in a way that, for example, true, is written with some noticeable
delay, like a couple of seconds, and the false is returned as normal.
If an attacker is able to run such query, they can test the database against whatever they want.
In this example, to see if the log in column exists.
The result will be a true or false answer.
Where true is when the response comes after at least 3 seconds.
Finally, let's see how to actually put the data in the query.
The ultimate method to protect your site against school injection attacks.
The only secure way to put input data in database query and avoid ESC was injection attack is by using
prepared statements or in other words, parameterized the query.
A simple example would look like this.
I will explain the details of this code in a while, but they wanted to first give you a general overview.
The idea is that you write the query pretty much as usual, but instead of any values, we insert placeholders.
Then we bind our variables to those placeholders.
That is, we assign values to them and then we execute around.
Run the query.
Doesn't seem like a rocket science, does it?
And looking at the code, you might wonder where the protection is.
What we can see is how the query is actually executed.
It's not that BHP just pastes the binding values into a query with some clever escaping.
The underlying magic is that the query and the data are sent separately to the database server and even
on the database level they are still not merged into a single query.
The school code looks rather like that.
Pretty similar to how we wrote it in B, so there's actually no way for the binder to value to mess
up the initial query.
We have query and data separate.
This is why using this technique is so important.
Let's now discuss the BHP code in details in video you prepared the query like in this example is the
same code as before.
DBC is the connection we set up at the beginning of the script.
Here we have a query pass to the prepare method of PDO object instead of the query method.
The interesting part lies in the workflows where we use a semicolon, uid and semicolon are all placeholders.
In video you defined named placeholders by preventing their names with semicolons.
So we have a query with no values there yet to field the placeholders with values.
You can either bind them one by one with bind value methods and then use the executed methods to pull
of the query.
Or bind them directly in the execute method by passing an array to it in which keys are placeholders
and values are are the values that we wanted to pass.
The benefit of first method is that you can explicitly said the type of binding value for each piece
holder.
In this example, we underline that the EUA must be treated as a number.
You don't have this option when passing an array to execute a method like we did in the second example.
Other types are listed in PD or constants documentation, boolean, null, string, etc..
The default is string.
In my you are using object oriented style.
The syntax is pretty similar, but there are differences.
First you call the prepar method on my school.
I object to which you pass your query just like in video, but differently than in video.
You use only question marks symbols as placeholders.
You don't give them names, then you bind them using bind param methods of minuscule statement object
and execute the query.
Not the binding.
In my school I works differently than in PDL.
It's something like in between both ways of doing that.
In PDL, it uses the dedicated binding method like we did in first video example, which allows or here
rather requires you to specify the variables types.
But you bind all variables in one method call.
So in that it's similar to putting all the variables as an array to use execute methods.
The Mind Balm method in my school, I can have two or more arguments, and the mysterious first argument
is a string that defines types of all past variables, each with a single letter.
There are four letters corresponding to this support.
Two types I for integer d for double that is float ns for string and B for blob.
So in our example, I asked means that the first value is an integer and the second is a string.
See some more examples to clarify how it works.
The number of letters must, of course, match the number of values and the number of placeholders.
Finally you pull off the query with the execute method, just like in video.
For those preferring procedural style, here's how it works compared to the object oriented style.
Instead of using prepare methods on database connection object, you use my school, I prepare function
and past with the database connection object and the query.
And similarly you use my askew as a statement bind param and my askew with a statement execute instead
of bind param and execute methods on query object.
Now in both cases BDO and MySchool, you still can use a direct query, but do it only if it doesn't
include any data from the outside and you as a developer have a full control on every character that
gets into the query.
For example, whenever you simply fetch the list of categories like here.
There's no need to prepare it.
It's defined by you.
Nothing can get into it.
And it's secure.
Note also that you cannot use placeholders for column or table names.
If you need user input to determine the column or table name, you need to put it directly in the query,
which is dangerous, and it means you must do very strict validation, ideally using a rigorous regex.
In this case, we filter out everything.
That's not a letter digit or underscore.
Alternatively, you can verify the incoming table name eg is the list of tables that actually exist.
In this code, we are using a waitlist approach.
So first we get all existing table names with show tables.
Query.
And then we compared the user input with an array of tables that we have in our database.
And that's all there is to it.
Your sites should be safe against fuel injection attacks if you follow these simple recommendations.